[ "Computational Complexity: A Modern Approach by Sanjeev Arora and Boaz Barak (Textbook homepage) Computational Complexity: A Conceptual Perspective by Oded Goldreich (Textbook homepage) The majority of the content between these two books is comparable. However, some key differences exist: Goldreich devotes more space to exploring the conceptual and philosophical basis of complexity theory, whereas Arora/Barak covers a wider selection of topics, including concrete models of complexity, quantum computation, and circuit lower bounds that are mostly absent from the former.",
" Computational Complexity by Christos Papadimitriou Papadimitriou's book is notable for chapters covering first-order logic as well as the classes SNP, MaxSNP00, and APX (the theoretical foundations of hardness of approximation), which are missing from the more modern texts.",
" Introduction to the Theory of Computation by Michael Sipser This is one of the few/first textbooks that explicitly includes Proof Idea: between Theorem: and Proof:, and is one of the best-written mathematical textbooks on any topic. On the other hand, it is only an intro to complexity, devoting only one 50-page chapter to advanced topics (including approximation, probabilistic algorithms, IP=PSPACE, and crypto). As a first book on complexity, or as an example of truly excellent writing, this book is great.",
"Kip S. Thorne, Black holes and time warps: Einstein's outrageous legacy.  W. W. Norton, 1995.  A delightful romp through the history of the notion of a black hole (a story in which Thorne has been an active participant).  I doubt you'll wind up understanding very much relativity theory from reading this book, but you'll certainly have gained a vivid impression of some of the personalities involved in uncovering the mysteries of black hole physics.  Note that Thorne is one of the triumvirate of authors of my favorite GTR textbook (see MTW below).",
"Robert Geroch, General relativity from A to B.  University of Chicago Press, 1981.  As the title suggests, you can't expect to master a significant fraction of the basic notions of GR in this book, but what Geroch does cover here is very well explained.  A beautifully illustrated and very gentle introduction to the geometry of Minkowski spacetime of SR and then to the curved spacetimes of GR, including a clear intuitive discussion of some features of Schwarzschild geometry (nonrotating uncharged black holes), by a leading physicist.",
"The Feynman Lectures on Physics, volume 3, by Richard Feynman, Robert Leighton, and Matthew Sands 1964 Feynman developed these lectures half a century ago they remain among the most acclaimed introductions to the subject. With his famously clear exposition, Feynman lures readers into the quantum world matter that behaves (in some sense) like waves the role of probability the implications of the uncertainty principle. Not exactly a popular book later chapters delve more concertedly into quantitative calculation this classic introduction rewards disciplined and curious readers.",
"Mr. Tompkins in Paperback, by George Gamow 1993 Gamow was an accomplished theoretical physicist who helped invent the big-bang model of the universe. He was also an inveterate practical jokester. In 1940 he created the endearing Mr Tompkins, a bank clerk with a hankering for science. Gamows main trick was to play with the constants of nature so that Tompkins could experience its exotic effects on a human scale. Slow the speed of light, for example, and bicyclists wristwatches betray all the effects of Einsteins relativity. Increase Plancks constant, and suddenly billiard balls in a pub dissolve into interpenetrating puffs of probability. These lighthearted stories offer a taste of the curiosities of modern physics.",
"The Ghost in the Atom A Discussion of the Mysteries of Quantum Physics, by PCW Davies and JR Brown 1986 This collection derives from a series of radio interviews with leading physicists. The opening chapter provides an accessible, brief introduction to quantum theory and broaches several competing perspectives on how best to make sense of its implications. The interviews capture a moment in time, during the mid 1980s, when several leading physicists began to grapple again with the interpretation of quantum theory, a subject that had largely been shunted aside.",
"Uncertainty The Life and Science of Werner Heisenberg, by David Cassidy 1992 This life of quantum architect Werner Heisenberg captures the sweep and drama of his early years. A wunderkind who received his doctorate at 22, Heisenberg introduced his version of quantum mechanics just two years later and followed up soon after that with the famous uncertainty principle. On the heels of those triumphs, Heisenberg struggled to balance his abiding German patriotism with the realities of Nazism  a regime that tapped him to lead the still controversial German nuclear effort.",
" The Age of Entanglement When Quantum Physics was Reborn, by Louisa Gilder 2008 Some of the most provocative features of quantum theory emerged much more recently. The notion of quantum entanglement which Einstein had dubbed, dismissively, as spooky action at a distance came into its own over the past 50 years. Gilder provides a creative rendering of the newer material with a series of portraits based on physicists published writings, unpublished correspondence and interviews. Her account blends popular science writing with historical detective work and narrative flair.",
"Quantum Reality Beyond the New Physics, by Nick Herbert 1985 One of the first popular books to tackle quantum entanglement, this clear and witty account doesn't shy away from the philosophical stakes. Using thought experiments as well as accessible descriptions of real experiments, Herbert explores how several contending interpretations try to account for an underlying reality.",
"The Second Creation Makers of the Revolution in Twentieth Century Physics, by Robert Crease and Charles Mann 1986 Quantum theory undergirds physicists understanding of the building blocks of matter not just atoms or parts of atoms like electrons and nuclei, but deep into the structure the nucleus itself, into a teeming world of quarks, gluons, and  yes  the Higgs boson. Though written long before the latest discoveries at the Large Hadron Collider, Crease and Mann captured the drama of physicists' long quest to tease apart the ultimate constituents and forces of nature.",
"How to Teach Physics to Your Dog, by Chad Orzel 2009 Advertisement If physicist Chad Orzels dog, Emmy, can get the gist of the uncertainty principle, Bells theorem, and even quantum teleportation, so can you. An expert in the latest efforts to harness the weird features of quantum theory in the laboratory, Orzel has a knack for helpful analogies. Best of all, his book broaches many of the latest ideas and developments, delivering an accessible account every bit as engaging as classics such as Gamow's Mr Tompkins, now brought uptodate."
]
