When 20-year-old Khamzat Azimov went on a deadly stabbing spree in Paris this month, a May 12 attack claimed by the Islamic State extremist group, details about his upbringing caught the attention of psychoanalyst and counterterrorism expert Nancy Hartevelt Kobrin.  Considering Azimov's infancy in war-torn Chechnya, and the fact that he continued to live with his mother in a one-room Paris apartment until he was shot dead by police in the midst of his attack, Kobrin saw a pattern reflected in other Islamist terrorists she has studied and written about.  They include Chechen Islamist separatist leader Shamil Basayev, Jordanian-born Al-Qaeda militant Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, and the Boston Marathon bombers Dzhokhar and Tamerlan Tsarnaev, also of Chechen descent.  In a nutshell, Kobrin said all appear to have had relationship issues with their mothers that stemmed from being infants in what anthropologists describe as shame.

Over the past few decades with the rise of information technology and globalization, the global economy has become networked on many different levels. Both its technological infrastructure and its institutional superstructure have become increasingly integrated into dense, multimodal networks, from the micro level of individual organizations all the way up to the global level through global cities and the global supply chains that they enable. We have increasingly interconnected our economies, bringing in frontier zones like the copper mines in Mongolia or small rural villages in Norway as they connect into the ever-denser set of connections between the global cities.
On top of all of this, we have built a global financial system of extraordinary complexity – financial networks that represent cross linkages between assets and liability all over the planet, risk and returns that are sliced and diced and distributed out into the future through all sorts of derivatives, contracts and exotic instruments. And making all this happen are of course telecommunication networks on all levels. Previously well-bounded organizations like national economies and corporations are scrambling to adapt to a massive wave of hyper-connectivity, as we see new IT enabled network organizations emerge and thrive in this connected economy of the 21st century. Suffice it to say, networks are emerging as a fundamental organizational structure within post-industrial economies and understanding them is more relevant than ever.
