["services industry includes banking, finance etc.,", "security of online services transactions has come under intense scrutiny", "software engineers and developers are backbones of banking and ITES industry","Bulbs is an open-source Python persistence framework for graph databases and the first piece of a larger Web-development toolkit that will be released in the upcoming weeks","Post-Brexit power vacuum hits UK tech policy influence at European Parliament", "The attack took place at the entrance of the international arrivals area in Terminal 2 of the third-busiest airport in Turkey. Photo: AFP.", "Nasa's Mars Curiosity rover has discovered high levels of manganese oxides in Martian rocks. Photo: Nasa. Washington: The National Aeronautics and Space Administration's (NASA) Mars Curiosity rover has discovered high levels of manganese oxides in", "Researchers have developed a new, non-invasive method that can kill cancer cells in two hours, an advance that may significantly help people with inoperable or hard-to-reach tumours as well as young children stricken with the deadly disease.","There were blood splatters everywhere. Attackers killed at least 36 at an Istanbul airport","Read more about our banking industry IT solutions which enable customers across financial and banking consulting industry; globally build the bankable future","Initial indications suggest Islamic State could be behind the attack. Erdogan urges international joint fight against terror.  Two explosions rocked Istanbuls Ataturk airport, killing 36 people and wounding 147, Turkeys justice minister Bekir Bozdag said.", "The HDI was created to emphasize that people and their capabilities should be the ultimate criteria for assessing the development of a country, not economic growth alone. The HDI can also be used to question national policy choices, asking how two countries with the same level of GNI per capita can end up with different human development outcomes. These contrasts can stimulate debate about government policy priorities." , "The Human Development Index (HDI) is a summary measure of average achievement in key dimensions of human development: a long and healthy life, being knowledgeable and have a decent standard of living. The HDI is the geometric mean of normalized indices for each of the three dimensions.", "The health dimension is assessed by life expectancy at birth, the education dimension is measured by mean of years of schooling for adults aged 25 years and more and expected years of schooling for children of school entering age. The standard of living dimension is measured by gross national income per capita. The HDI uses the logarithm of income, to reflect the diminishing importance of income with increasing GNI. The scores for the three HDI dimension indices are then aggregated into a composite index using geometric mean. Refer to Technical notes for more details.", "The HDI simplifies and captures only part of what human development entails. It does not reflect on inequalities, poverty, human security, empowerment, etc. The HDRO offers the other composite indices as broader proxy on some of the key issues of human development, inequality, gender disparity and human poverty", "How We Make Progress", "To truly advance social progress, we must learn to measure it comprehensively and rigorously. When everyone uses the same vocabulary to describe challenges, it's that much easier to overcome them.","Our Best Yet", "The 2016 version of the Social Progress Index has improved upon the 2015 version through generous feedback from many observers. It covers an expanded number of countries with 53 indicators.", "Social progress depends on the policy choices, investments, and implementation capabilities of multiple stakeholders government, civil society, and business.", "We are going to have to create, among other things: new ways to measure progress like the Social Progress Index "," Chennai metropolitan area expansion The Chennai Metropolitan Area comprises the city of Chennai, 8 Municipalities, 11 Town Panchayats and 179 Village Panchayats in 10 Panchayat Unions. The extent of CMA is 1189 Square kilometers.Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority","It is likely that the Tamil Nadu government may extend the CMA to 8878 square kilometers. Chennai Metropolitan Area expansion"]


